Rework Getting Started/projects page (#54)
onrirr/c3-web: src/content/docs/Getting Started/projects.mdx

---
title: Projects
description: Learn to create C3 projects
sidebar:
  order: 31
---
import { FileTree } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

:::note[Not installed the C3 compiler yet?]
[Download C3](/install-c3/prebuilt-binaries/), available on Mac, Windows and Linux.
:::

## Projects in C3
Projects are *optional*, but are a good way to manage compiling code when there
 are a lot of files and modules.

> They also allow you so specify libraries to link and define how your project should be built for specific targets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They also allow you to specify libraries to link, and define how your project should be built for specific targets.
```

### 💡 Creating a new project

The `c3c init` command will create a new directory containing your project structure.
It requires a name of the project, we will use `myc3project` in its place.

```bash
c3c init myc3project
```

You can also customize the path where the project will be created or specify a *template*. For more information check the [init command reference](/build-your-project/build-commands/#init-a-new-project).

### 📁 Project structure

If you check the directory that was created you might find it a bit confusing with a bunch of different directories, but worry not because if you expand them you will realise that most of them are actually empty!

<FileTree>
- build/
- docs/
- lib/
- resources/
- scripts/
- src/
  - main.c3
- test/
- LICENSE
- project.json
- README.md
</FileTree>

> Let's go over some of the useful ones;
> - `./build` is where your temporary files and build results will end up
> - `./docs` are the overall documentations for your code
> - `./lib` is where C3 libraries (with the .c3l suffix) end up
> - `./resources` are for any resources like images, sound effects etc.
> - `./scripts` is for various scripts, including .c3 scripts that can run at compile time to generate code
> - `./src` is what we care about as it's where a majority of our code will go and it now contains `main.c3` with "Hello World" example
> - `project.json` file is where you add more data about your project, sort of like package.json for node.js
> - `LICENSE` file for your code license
> - `README.md` file where you can describe your project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Directory Overview

| Directory       | Usage         |
|-----------------|---------------|
| `./build`       | Where your temporary files and build results will go. |
| `./docs`        | Code Documentation |
| `./lib`         | C3 libraries (with the .c3l suffix) |
| `./resources`   | Non-code esources like images, sound effects etc. |
| `./scripts`     | Scripts, including .c3 scripts that generate code at compile time. |
| `./src`         | Storing our code, by default contains `main.c3` with "Hello World". |
| `project.json`  | Record project information, similar to `package.json` in NodeJS. |
| `LICENSE`       | Project license. |
| `README.md`     | Help others understand and use your code. | 
```

### 🔧 Building the project

Assuming you have successfully initialized a project as seen above, we can now look at how to compile it.

> We can simply build it with:

Reviewer: Let's move the c3c run part so it's first before `c3c build`, so they can see the most important information first

```bash 
c3c build
```

This command builds the project targets defined in our `project.json` file.

> If you want to build a specific target, you can do so by specifying its name.
> The default target is created with the name of the project, such as `myc3project`.
> 
> ```bash 
> c3c build myc3project
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::Note
If you want to build a specific target, you can do so by specifying its name.
The default target is created with the name of the project, such as `myc3project`.

```bash 
c3c build myc3project
```
:::
```

Reviewer: I think the trailing `:::` got a bit lost here, but hopefully you know what I meant

We will now have a binary in build, which we can run:

```bash
./build/myc3project
```

It should print `Hello, World!` and return back to the command line prompt. 
If you are on Windows, you will have `myc3project.exe` instead. Call it in the same way.

> ### 🏃 Building and running

Reviewer: See above note about moving this section before the `c3c build`
